React is a JavaScript library for building user interfaces (UI), primarily for web applications. It focuses on creating fast interactive, and reusable UI components.
React was developed by Facebook and released in 2013. It is now open-source and widely used by companies like Meta, Netflix, Instagram, Airbnb, and many more.

characteristics:
 - component based means UI is broken into small peaces known as components.
 - react uses the lightweight in-memory tree known as virtual DOM(Docomunt Object Model - represent the web page into structured way) to quickly update only the part of the page that change.
 - data flow in one direction, making app more predictible and easy to debug.
 - syntax of react is the combination of the JavaScript and HTML like code known as JSX(JavaScript XML) syntax.

React provide fast performance, reusable components, pridictible UI, strong ecosystem, cross platform support.

SPA(Single Page Application):
A Single Page Application (SPA) is a type of web application where:
 - The entire application runs on a single HTML page.
 - Only parts of the page are updated dynamically based on user interaction.
 - The browser does not reload the entire page on navigation or interaction.
 - Data is fetched using APIs (e.g., AJAX, Fetch) and the UI updates without a full refresh.

Environment Setup for React:

    Install Node.js and npm
    React requires Node.js and npm (Node Package Manager) to run.

    Check if Node.js is installed:

    Open your terminal/command prompt and run:
        node -v
        npm -v

    If versions appear, you're good to go. If not download and install it.

    Optional: Install Yarn (Alternative to npm)
    Yarn is an alternative package manager to npm, known for speed and reliability.

    To install Yarn globally:
        npm install -g yarn

    Check version:
        yarn -v

    You can use either npm or yarn based on preference (both work with React).

Install create-react-app
create-react-app is the easiest way to set up a new React project with zero configuration.

    Using npx (Recommended, no global install needed):
        npx create-react-app my-app
    
    If you want to install it globally (Optional):
        npm install -g create-react-app
        create-react-app my-app

    Navigate into your project and start development server:
        cd my-app
        npm start

    or with Yarn:
        cd my-app
        yarn start

Run create-react-app Using VS Code
    Open VS Code
    
    Open Terminal in VS Code

    Navigate to the Folder Where You Want Your Project
    Example:
        cd D:\ReactProjects

    Run create-react-app Using npx
    Example:
        npx create-react-app my-app

    Navigate Into Your Project
    cd my-app

    Start the React Development Server
    npm start

Typical React Project Structure
    When you run:
        npx create-react-app my-app
        cd my-app

    You'll see:
        my-app/
        ├── node_modules/
        ├── public/
        │   ├── index.html
        │   └── favicon.ico
        ├── src/
        │   ├── App.css
        │   ├── App.js
        │   ├── App.test.js
        │   ├── index.css
        │   ├── index.js
        │   ├── logo.svg
        │   └── reportWebVitals.js
        ├── .gitignore
        ├── package.json
        ├── README.md
        └── yarn.lock / package-lock.json

    node_modules/
        Contains all the project dependencies.
        Auto-generated; never edit manually.

    public/
        Contains static files.
        index.html:
            The only HTML file.
            React injects your app inside the <div id="root"></div>.
    
    src/
        All your React code lives here.
        App.js - Main component of your application; rendered inside index.js
        App.css	- Styling for App.js
        index.js - Entry point for React; renders <App /> inside index.html
        index.css - Global styles (optional)
        logo.svg - Example logo used in the starter template
        reportWebVitals.js - Measures performance (optional for beginners)
        App.test.js - Testing file (can delete if not testing right away)

    package.json
        Lists project metadata, dependencies, and scripts.

    .gitignore
        Lists files/folders to exclude from version control (e.g., node_modules).

    README.md
        Initial documentation for your project.